---
tags:
  - DataAnalytic
  - Google
  - Project
Date-creation: 2025-02-18 21:45
Date-modified: 2025-02-18 21:45
---
> [!important] ## Definition
---
- The solution won't just right in front of you, so you need to think creatively to find out a solution, that's so-called **Core analytical skills**
- Tool-1: **Five Whys**
> [!tips] 
>- From the surface to the essential, each *why* accept the first one is based on last *why*'s answer ^c87d3d
- Tool-2: **Gap analysis** _**Where are the gaps in our process?**
	- A method for examining and evaluating how a process works currently in order to get where you want to be in the future
> [!Tips] 
> - Understanding the situation now and compared to where you wanna be
- Tool-3: _**What did we not consider before?**
> [!info] 
> - This is a great way to think about what information or procedure might be missing from a process

---
> [!example] Here comes the Instance
> - An online grocery store was receiving numerous customer service complaints about poor deliveries. To address this problem, a data analyst at the company asked their first “why?”
> - Followings are copied from [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/learn/foundations-data/supplement/5GhLZ/use-the-five-whys-for-root-cause-analysis)
- **Why #1.** “Customers are complaining about poor grocery deliveries. Why?”
  *The data analyst began by reviewing the customer feedback more closely. They noted the vast majority of complaints dealt with products arriving damaged. So, they asked “why?” again.
- **Why #2.** “Products are arriving damaged. Why?”
  *To answer this question, the data analyst continued exploring the customer feedback. It turned out that many customers said products were not packaged properly.
- **Why #3.** “Products are not packaged properly. Why?”
  *After asking their third “why,” the data analyst did some further detective work. They ultimately learned that their company’s grocery packers were not adequately trained on packing procedures.
- **Why #4**. “Grocery packers are not adequately trained. Why?”
  *This “why” enabled the data analyst to uncover that nearly 35% of all packers were new to the company. They had not yet had the chance to complete all required training, yet they were already being asked to pack groceries for customer orders.
- **Why #5**. “Packers have not completed required training. Why?”
  *This final “why?” led the data analyst to find out that the human resources department had not provided necessary training to any newly hired packers. This was because HR was in the middle of reworking the training program. Rather than training new hires using the old system, they had provided them with a quick one-page guide, which was insufficient.* 

## Key takeaway
---
- The five whys is a powerful tool for root cause analysis.
- **Simple, but effective**
  *a great way to collaborate with colleagues and learn about other areas of the business*
- As a data professional, you can turn to the **five whys** whenever you feel stumped by a problem and need to approach it from a different perspective.



