---
tags:
  - Google
  - DataAnalytic
  - Project
Date: 2024-01-06
---

## Six steps of the data analysis process
---
- ### Ask
- ### Prepare
- ### Process
- ### Analyze
- ### Share
- ### Act
These process above apply to any data analysis task.
### Context「following is a context」
---
- an Organization is experiencing a high turnover rate among new hires
> 新员工（入职未满一年）离职率高
####  Question Is ：***How can the organization improve the retention rate for new employees?**
---
- *Ask*: it is the step to define the destination of the analysis project. To determine those stuffs, you need to ensure what be **asked** is effective(by cooperating with third parties who are interested in the outcome).
> 这一步是为了定义一个项目里程碑/项目成果——项目成功的标志。为了确定这一点，需要与相关方合作，识别出分析后最终需要解答什么问题
- *Prepare*: this step is mean to build up the basis of the project - set timeline, set progress feedback **mechanism**, identify the target data.
> 这一步类似项目前期准备，设定时间表、建立进度反馈机制（对感兴趣的第三方）、识别完成上述问题所需的数据
- *Process*: It's about data **collected/stored/managed and protected**
> 收集存储清洗处理保护数据
- *Analyze*: Based on what've been collected, analysts start doing analysis and get some conclusions. And **document** those findings
- *Share*: Give out the analytic report, which enables the relevant parties to communicate the result
- *Act*: **Implement changes and take actions** on the basis of the findings
### Summary
---
In the **ask phase**, you’ll work to understand the challenge to be solved or the question to be answered. It will likely be assigned to you by stakeholders. As this is the ask phase, you’ll ask many questions to help you along the way.
>问：搞清楚要解决的问题和困难

Next, in the **prepare phase**, you’ll find and collect the data you'll need to answer your questions. You’ll identify data sources, gather data, and verify that it is accurate and useful for answering your questions.
>备：收集能够解答问题的数据

The **process phase** is when you will clean and organize your data. Tasks you perform here include removing any inconsistencies; filling in missing values; and, in many cases, changing the data to a format that's easier to work with. Essentially, you’re ensuring the data is ready before you begin analysis.
>理：整理收集到的数据

The **analyze phase** is when you do the necessary data analysis to uncover answers and solutions. Depending on the situation and the data, this could involve tasks such as calculating averages or counting items in categories so you can examine trends and patterns.
>析：对处理好的数据按需进行分析工作

Next comes the **share phase**, when you present your findings to decision-makers through a report, presentation, or data visualizations. As part of the share phase, you decide which medium you want to use to share your findings and select the data to include. Tools for presenting data visually include charts made in Google Sheets, Tableau, and R.
>享：将分析结果共享给相关方

Last is the **act phase**, in which you and others in the company put the data insights into action. This could mean implementing a new business strategy, making changes to a website, or any other action that solves the initial problem.
>动：把分析结论付诸实践
