---
tags:
  - Project
  - DataAnalytic
  - Google
Date-creation: 2025-02-19 12:51
Date-modified: 2025-02-19 12:51
---
> [!important] ## Topic 
>    # Data Life Cycle
- It describes the data's life from the very start of the analysis project to the very end of the project.

>[!example] ## Example
- ## Google Version
	-  **Plan
		- *Time:* Before starting an analysis project
		- *Function:* Decide what kind of data is needed, how it will be managed, and who will be responsible for it.
	- **Capture
		- *Function:* Collect or bring in data from a variety of different sources.
	- **Manage
		- *Function:* Care for and maintain the data. This includes determining how and where it is stored and the tools used to do so.
	- **Analyze
	  just analyze
		- *Function:* Use the data to solve problems, make decisions, and support business goals.
	- **Archive
		- *Function:* Keep relevant data stored for long-term and future reference.
	- **Destroy**
		- *Function:* Remove data from storage and delete any shared copies of the data.
- ## U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
>[!info]  More on [U.S. Fish and Wildlife's Data Management Life Cycle](https://www.fws.gov/program/data-management/data-management-life-cycle "U.S. Fish and Wildlife's Data Management LIfe Cycle") 
1. Plan
2. Acquire
3. Maintain
4. Access
5. Evaluate
6. Archive
- ## The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS)
>[!info]  More on [USGS Data Lifecycle](https://www.usgs.gov/products/data-and-tools/data-management/data-lifecycle "USGS Data Lifecycle") 
1. Plan
2. Acquire
3. Process
4. Analyze
5. Preserve
6. Publish/share
> [!Tips] 
> Several cross-cutting or overarching activities are also performed during each stage of their life cycle:
> - Describe (metadata and documentation)
> - Manage quality
> - Backup and secure
- ## Financial institutions
>[!info]  More on [The Data Life Cycle](https://sfmagazine.com/post-entry/july-2018-the-data-life-cycle/ "The Data Life Cycle")
1. Capture
2. Qualify
3. Transform
4. Utilize
5. Report
6. Archive
7. Purge
- ## Harvard Business School (HBS)
1. Generation
2. Collection
3. Processing
4. Storage
5. Management
6. Analysis
7. Visualization
8. Interpretation
> [!Tips] ## Key takeaways
- Based on different needs, various organization will use their characterized data-life-cycle to meet the essential requirements