---
tags:
  - Project
  - DataAnalytic
  - Google
Date-creation: 2025-02-19 13:35
Date-modified: 2025-02-19 13:35
---
> [!important] ## Topic 
- Get started with SQL

>[!example] ## Example
## Query
---
- A **query** is a request for data or information from a database.
## Query syntax
The syntax of every SQL query is the same: 
- Use **SELECT** to choose the *columns* you want to return.
- Use **FROM** to choose the *tables* where the columns you want are located.
- Use **WHERE** to *filter for certain information.*

| KEY WORDS | FUNCTION                                          |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| SELECT    | Specifies the columns from which to retrieve data |
| FROM      | Specifies the table from which to retrieve data   |
| WHERE     | Specifies criteria that the data must meet        |
- **SELECT PART**, you can use comma to separate different fields you wanna query for
  ```sql
  SELECT
customer_id,
first_name,
last_name
FROM
customer_data.customer_name
WHERE
first_name = 'Tony'
```
- while the **WHERE PART** use logic conjunction like *AND*, *OR*, *NOT*
  ```sql
  SELECT
customer_id,
first_name,
last_name
FROM
customer_data.customer_name
WHERE
customer_id > 0
AND first_name = 'Tony'
AND last_name = 'Magnolia'
```
- **FROM PART** use comma to separate different tables too, and this part refer tables from database by syntax like '*database_name.table_name*'

## Other Keywords
---
### like
- **like** usually used with another sign, '%' ; Its function is to **fuzzy search**
	- **%**: Its function is a *placeholder* for any other possible char
##### Eg.
```sql
where field1 like 'ch%'
```
> Above codes means search for record whose **field1** starts with **'ch'**

### *
- This keywords stands for all columns in the selected table
##### Eg.
```sql
select * 
from table1
```
>  Above codes means search for all columns in the **table1**

### Comments
---
- Use following syntax to write down some comment
```sql
select * /*This is an comment example*/
from table1 -- This is another syntax for comment
```

### As
---
- You can set an alias to any column you search for to get a clearer query result
- Syntax as follows
```sql
SELECT
my_table_alias.actual_column_name AS my_column_alias
FROM
actual_table_name AS my_table_alias
```

### <>
---
- This syntax stands for '≠'

> [!Tips] ## Resource to learn more
- [W3Schools SQL Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/default.asp "W3Schools SQL Tutorial"): If you would like to explore a detailed tutorial of SQL, this is the perfect place to start. This tutorial includes interactive examples you can edit, test, and recreate. Use it as a reference or complete the whole tutorial to practice using SQL. Click the green **Start learning SQL now** button or the **Next** button to begin the tutorial.
- [SQL Cheat Sheet](https://www.sqltutorial.org/sql-cheat-sheet/ "SQL Cheat Sheet"): For more advanced learners, go through this handy 3-page resource to gain an overview of additional SQL functions and formulas. By the time you are finished looking through the cheat sheet, you will know a lot more about the various SQL techniques and will be prepared to use it for business analysis and other tasks.

> [!note] ## Self-Reflection
- 